docs/concepts/crds/repository.md, before:

---
title: Repository Overview
menu:
  product_stash_0.7.0-rc.3:
    identifier: repository-overview
    name: Repository
    parent: crds
    weight: 15
product_name: stash
menu_name: product_stash_0.7.0-rc.3
section_menu_id: concepts
---

> New to Stash? Please start [here](/docs/concepts/README.md).

# Repository

## What is Repository
A `Repository` is a Kubernetes `CustomResourceDefinition (CRD)`. It provides information of a [restic](https://restic.net/) repository in Kubernetes native way. When [stash](/docs/concepts/what-is-stash/overview.md) sidecar create a restic repository for backup in desired backend, it also create a `Repository` CRD object with relevant information of the repository. This enable user to view backup status of the workloads very easily.

## Repository CRD structure
A sample `Repository` CRD object for backup a `Deployment` in local backend is shown below,

```yaml
apiVersion: stash.appscode.com/v1alpha1
  kind: Repository
  metadata:
    clusterName: ""
    creationTimestamp: 2018-04-10T05:09:10Z
    generation: 0
    labels:
      restic: stash-demo
      workload-kind: Deployment
      workload-name: stash-demo
    name: deployment.stash-demo
    namespace: default
    resourceVersion: "7515"
    selfLink: /apis/stash.appscode.com/v1alpha1/namespaces/default/repositories/deployment.stash-demo
    uid: 4dccffa8-3c7d-11e8-9f4d-0800270b3cc5
  spec:
    backend:
      local:
        hostPath:
          path: /data/stash-test/restic-repo
        mountPath: /safe/data
        subPath: deployment/stash-demo
      storageSecretName: local-secret
  status:
    backupCount: 7
    firstBackupTime: 2018-04-10T05:10:11Z
    lastBackupDuration: 3.026137088s
    lastBackupTime: 2018-04-10T05:16:12Z
```

Here, we are going describe some important sections of `Repository` CRD.

## Repository Labels

`Repository` maintain some important information in label. These labels enable user to filter `Repository` according to `restic`, `workload-kind`, `workload-name`, `node-name` etc. Details of these labels are given below.

| Label name      | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `restic`        | Name of the `Restic` which is responsible for this `Repository`.                                                                                              |
| `workload-kind` | `Kind` of the workload for which the `Repository` has been created.                                                                                           |
| `workload-name` | `Name` of the workload for which the `Repository` has been created.                                                                                           |
| `pod-name`      | This `label` present when the respective workload is  `StatefulSet`. It represent the pod name of the `StatefulSet` who is responsible for this `Repository`. |
| `node-name`     | This `label` present when the respective workload is  `DaemonSet`. It represent the node name where the  `DaemonSet` is running.                              |

## Repository Spec

`Repository` CRD needs the following information in `.spec` section.

### spec.backend

`spec.backend` holds the backend information where the backup snapshots are being stored. To learn how to configure various backends for Restic, please visit [here](/docs/guides/backends.md).

### backend prefix/subPath

`prefix` of any backend denotes the directory inside the backend where the snapshots are being stored. If the backend is a **Local** backend then `subPath` is used for this purpose.

## Repository Status

Stash operator updates `.status` of a Repository CRD every time a backup operation is completed.

- `status.backupCount` indicated the total number of backup operation completed for this Repository.
- `status.firstBackupTime` indicates the timestamp of first backup operation.
- `status.lastBackupTime` indicates the timestamp of last backup operation.
- `status.lastSuccessfulBackupTime` indicates the timestamp of last successful backup operation. If `status.lastBackupTime` and `status.lastSuccessfulBackupTime` are same, it means that last backup operation was successful.
- `status.lastBackupDuration` indicates the duration of last backup operation.

## Creation of Repository CRD

Whenever a `restic` repository is created according to [these](/docs/concepts/crds/restic.md#backup-repository-structure) rules, it also create respective `Repository` CRD object. Name of this `Repository` CRD object is generated based on rules below:

- For workload kind `Deployment`, `Replicaset` and `ReplicationController` `Repository` is created with name `<WORKLOAD_KIND>.<WORKLOAD_NAME>`. For multiple replicas, only one `Repository` is created as backup is taken by sidecar of replica determined by leader-election.
- For workload kind `Statefulset` `Repository` is created with name`<WORKLOAD_KIND>.<POD_NAME>`. A separate `Repository` is created for each replica of a StatefulSet..
- For workload kind `Daemonset` Repository is created with name `<WORKLOAD_KIND>.<WORKLOAD_NAME>.<NODE_NAME>`. One repository is created for each node where pods of a DaemonSet are running.

## Working with Repository CRD

Here are some helpful commands to play with `Repository` CRD,

```
# List all Repositories of all namespaces in the cluster
$ kubectl get repository --all-namespaces

# List all Repositories created for a particular Restic
$ kubectl get repository -l restic=stash-demo --all-namespaces

# List all Repositories of Deployment workloads of all namespaces
$ kubectl get repository -l workload-kind=Deployment --all-namespaces

# List all Respositories of a particular Workload
$ kubectl get repository -l workload-kind=StatefulSet,workload-name=stash-demo

# List all Repositories of a particular node (DaemonSet only)
$ kubectl get repository -l node-name=minikube
```

## Next Steps

- Learn how to use Stash to backup a Kubernetes deployment [here](/docs/guides/backup.md).
- To restore a backup see [here](/docs/guides/restore.md).
- Learn about the details of Recovery CRD [here](/docs/concepts/crds/recovery.md).
- To run backup in offline mode see [here](/docs/guides/offline_backup.md)
- See the list of supported backends and how to configure them [here](/docs/guides/backends.md).
- See working examples for supported workload types [here](/docs/guides/workloads.md).
- Thinking about monitoring your backup operations? Stash works [out-of-the-box with Prometheus](/docs/guides/monitoring.md).
- Learn about how to configure [RBAC roles](/docs/guides/rbac.md).
- Want to hack on Stash? Check our [contribution guidelines](/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

Show repository snapshot list (#417)
* Implement Get,List,Delete method for snapshots
* Added test for snapshots
* Added doc for snapshot
* Remove unused snapshot handler.

docs/concepts/crds/repository.md, after:

---
title: Repository Overview
menu:
  product_stash_0.7.0-rc.3:
    identifier: repository-overview
    name: Repository
    parent: crds
    weight: 15
product_name: stash
menu_name: product_stash_0.7.0-rc.3
section_menu_id: concepts
---

> New to Stash? Please start [here](/docs/concepts/README.md).

# Repository

## What is Repository
A `Repository` is a Kubernetes `CustomResourceDefinition (CRD)`. It provides information of a [restic](https://restic.net/) repository in Kubernetes native way. When [stash](/docs/concepts/what-is-stash/overview.md) sidecar creates a restic repository for backup in the desired backend, it also creates a `Repository` CRD object with relevant information of the repository. This enables a user to view backup status of the workloads very easily.

## Repository CRD structure
A sample `Repository` CRD object for backup a `Deployment` in local backend is shown below,

```yaml
apiVersion: stash.appscode.com/v1alpha1
  kind: Repository
  metadata:
    clusterName: ""
    creationTimestamp: 2018-04-10T05:09:10Z
    generation: 0
    labels:
      restic: stash-demo
      workload-kind: Deployment
      workload-name: stash-demo
    name: deployment.stash-demo
    namespace: default
    resourceVersion: "7515"
    selfLink: /apis/stash.appscode.com/v1alpha1/namespaces/default/repositories/deployment.stash-demo
    uid: 4dccffa8-3c7d-11e8-9f4d-0800270b3cc5
  spec:
    backend:
      local:
        hostPath:
          path: /data/stash-test/restic-repo
        mountPath: /safe/data
        subPath: deployment/stash-demo
      storageSecretName: local-secret
  status:
    backupCount: 7
    firstBackupTime: 2018-04-10T05:10:11Z
    lastBackupDuration: 3.026137088s
    lastBackupTime: 2018-04-10T05:16:12Z
```

Here, we are going describe some important sections of `Repository` CRD.

## Repository Labels

A `Repository` object maintains some important information using labels. These labels enable a user to filter `Repository` according to `restic`, `workload-kind`, `workload-name`, `node-name` etc. Details of these labels are given below.

| Label name      | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `restic`        | Name of the `Restic` which is responsible for this `Repository`.                                                                                              |
| `workload-kind` | `Kind` of the workload for which the `Repository` has been created.                                                                                           |
| `workload-name` | `Name` of the workload for which the `Repository` has been created.                                                                                           |
| `pod-name`      | This `label` present when the respective workload is  `StatefulSet`. It represents the pod name of the `StatefulSet` who is responsible for this `Repository`. |
| `node-name`     | This `label` present when the respective workload is  `DaemonSet`. It represents the node name where the  `DaemonSet` is running.                              |

## Repository Spec

`Repository` CRD needs the following information in `.spec` section.

### spec.backend

`spec.backend` holds the backend information where the backup snapshots are being stored. To learn how to configure various backends for Restic, please visit [here](/docs/guides/backends.md).

### backend prefix/subPath

`prefix` of any backend denotes the directory inside the backend where the snapshots are being stored. If the backend is a **Local** backend then `subPath` is used for this purpose.

## Repository Status

Stash operator updates `.status` of a Repository CRD every time a backup operation is completed.

- `status.backupCount` indicates the total number of backup operation completed for this Repository.
- `status.firstBackupTime` indicates the timestamp of first backup operation.
- `status.lastBackupTime` indicates the timestamp of last backup operation.
- `status.lastSuccessfulBackupTime` indicates the timestamp of last successful backup operation. If `status.lastBackupTime` and `status.lastSuccessfulBackupTime` are same, it means that last backup operation was successful.
- `status.lastBackupDuration` indicates the duration of last backup operation.

## Creation of Repository CRD

Whenever a `restic` repository is created according to [these](/docs/concepts/crds/restic.md#backup-repository-structure) rules, it also create respective `Repository` CRD object. Name of this `Repository` CRD object is generated based on rules below:

- For workload kind `Deployment`, `Replicaset` and `ReplicationController` `Repository` is created with name `<WORKLOAD_KIND>.<WORKLOAD_NAME>`. For multiple replicas, only one `Repository` is created as the backup is taken by sidecar of the replica determined by leader-election.
- For workload kind `Statefulset`, `Repository` is created with name`<WORKLOAD_KIND>.<POD_NAME>`. A separate `Repository` is created for each replica of a StatefulSet.
- For workload kind `DaemonSet`, Repository is created with name `<WORKLOAD_KIND>.<WORKLOAD_NAME>.<NODE_NAME>`. One repository is created for each node where pods of a DaemonSet are running.

## Working with Repository CRD

Here are some helpful commands to play with `Repository` CRD,

```
# List all Repositories of all namespaces in the cluster
$ kubectl get repository --all-namespaces

# List all Repositories created for a particular Restic
$ kubectl get repository -l restic=stash-demo --all-namespaces

# List all Repositories of Deployment workloads of all namespaces
$ kubectl get repository -l workload-kind=Deployment --all-namespaces

# List all Respositories of a particular Workload
$ kubectl get repository -l workload-kind=StatefulSet,workload-name=stash-demo

# List all Repositories of a particular node (DaemonSet only)
$ kubectl get repository -l node-name=minikube
```

## Next Steps

- Learn how to use Stash to backup a Kubernetes deployment [here](/docs/guides/backup.md).
- To restore a backup see [here](/docs/guides/restore.md).
- Learn about the details of Snapshot [here](/docs/concepts/crds/snapshot.md).
- Learn about the details of Recovery CRD [here](/docs/concepts/crds/recovery.md).
- To run backup in offline mode see [here](/docs/guides/offline_backup.md)
- See the list of supported backends and how to configure them [here](/docs/guides/backends.md).
- See working examples for supported workload types [here](/docs/guides/workloads.md).
- Thinking about monitoring your backup operations? Stash works [out-of-the-box with Prometheus](/docs/guides/monitoring.md).
- Learn about how to configure [RBAC roles](/docs/guides/rbac.md).
- Want to hack on Stash? Check our [contribution guidelines](/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).
