docs/guides/README.md, before:

---
title: Table of Contents | Guides
description: Table of Contents | Guides
menu:
  product_stash_0.7.0-alpha.0:
    identifier: guides-readme
    name: Readme
    parent: guides
    weight: -1
product_name: stash
menu_name: product_stash_0.7.0-alpha.0
section_menu_id: guides
url: /products/stash/0.7.0-alpha.0/guides/
aliases:
  - /products/stash/0.7.0-alpha.0/guides/README/
---
# Guides

Guides show you how to perform tasks with Stash.

- Learn how to use Stash to backup a Kubernetes deployment [here](/docs/guides/backup.md).
- To restore a backup see [here](/docs/guides/restore.md).
- To run backup in offline mode see [here](/docs/guides/offline_backup.md)
- See the list of supported backends and how to configure them [here](/docs/guides/backends.md).
- See working examples for supported workload types [here](/docs/guides/workloads.md).
- Thinking about monitoring your backup operations? Stash works [out-of-the-box with Prometheus](/docs/guides/monitoring.md).
- Learn about how to configure [RBAC roles](/docs/guides/rbac.md).
- Learn about how to configure Stash operator as workload initializer [here](/docs/guides/initializer.md).

Commit message:

Support self-signed ca cert for backends (#294)
* Implemented ca-certs
* Use service name to connect to minio server
* Merge minio docs into one.
* Use filepath.Join to generate file name
* Simplify how --cacert passed to restic
* Update backend docs
* implement cacert: tests fixed
* Fixed bug caused panic.
* Fixed Test: fail when initializer enabled.

docs/guides/README.md, after:

---
title: Table of Contents | Guides
description: Table of Contents | Guides
menu:
  product_stash_0.7.0-alpha.0:
    identifier: guides-readme
    name: Readme
    parent: guides
    weight: -1
product_name: stash
menu_name: product_stash_0.7.0-alpha.0
section_menu_id: guides
url: /products/stash/0.7.0-alpha.0/guides/
aliases:
  - /products/stash/0.7.0-alpha.0/guides/README/
---
# Guides

Guides show you how to perform tasks with Stash.

- Learn how to use Stash to backup a Kubernetes deployment [here](/docs/guides/backup.md).
- To restore a backup see [here](/docs/guides/restore.md).
- To run backup in offline mode see [here](/docs/guides/offline_backup.md)
- See the list of supported backends and how to configure them [here](/docs/guides/backends.md).
- Learn to use Stash with self-hosted TLS secured Minio Server [here](/docs/guides/minio_server.md).
- See working examples for supported workload types [here](/docs/guides/workloads.md).
- Thinking about monitoring your backup operations? Stash works [out-of-the-box with Prometheus](/docs/guides/monitoring.md).
- Learn about how to configure [RBAC roles](/docs/guides/rbac.md).
- Learn about how to configure Stash operator as workload initializer [here](/docs/guides/initializer.md).
