docs/reference/stash_recover.md, before:

---
title: Stash Recover
menu:
  product_stash_0.7.0-rc.3:
    identifier: stash-recover
    name: Stash Recover
    parent: reference
product_name: stash
menu_name: product_stash_0.7.0-rc.3
section_menu_id: reference
---
## stash recover

Recover restic backup

### Synopsis

Recover restic backup

```
stash recover [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help                   help for recover
      --kubeconfig string      Path to kubeconfig file with authorization information (the master location is set by the master flag).
      --master string          The address of the Kubernetes API server (overrides any value in kubeconfig)
      --recovery-name string   Name of the Recovery CRD.
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --alsologtostderr                  log to standard error as well as files
      --enable-analytics                 Send analytical events to Google Analytics (default true)
      --log_backtrace_at traceLocation   when logging hits line file:N, emit a stack trace (default :0)
      --log_dir string                   If non-empty, write log files in this directory
      --logtostderr                      log to standard error instead of files
      --stderrthreshold severity         logs at or above this threshold go to stderr
  -v, --v Level                          log level for V logs
      --vmodule moduleSpec               comma-separated list of pattern=N settings for file-filtered logging
```

### SEE ALSO

* [stash](/docs/reference/stash.md)	 - Stash by AppsCode - Backup your Kubernetes Volumes

Commit message:

Add support for initial backoff to the apiserver call on recover (#476)
Stash will wait to connect to the apiserver until the delay expires. The default is set to forever as it's reasonable to expect that the apiserver will come back; until it doesn't the restore pod has nothing else to do, really.

Fixes #475

docs/reference/stash_recover.md, after:

---
title: Stash Recover
menu:
  product_stash_0.7.0-rc.3:
    identifier: stash-recover
    name: Stash Recover
    parent: reference
product_name: stash
menu_name: product_stash_0.7.0-rc.3
section_menu_id: reference
---
## stash recover

Recover restic backup

### Synopsis

Recover restic backup

```
stash recover [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --backoff-max-wait duration   Maximum wait for initial response from kube apiserver; 0 disables the timeout
  -h, --help                        help for recover
      --kubeconfig string           Path to kubeconfig file with authorization information (the master location is set by the master flag).
      --master string               The address of the Kubernetes API server (overrides any value in kubeconfig)
      --recovery-name string        Name of the Recovery CRD.
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --alsologtostderr                  log to standard error as well as files
      --enable-analytics                 Send analytical events to Google Analytics (default true)
      --log_backtrace_at traceLocation   when logging hits line file:N, emit a stack trace (default :0)
      --log_dir string                   If non-empty, write log files in this directory
      --logtostderr                      log to standard error instead of files
      --stderrthreshold severity         logs at or above this threshold go to stderr
  -v, --v Level                          log level for V logs
      --vmodule moduleSpec               comma-separated list of pattern=N settings for file-filtered logging
```

### SEE ALSO

* [stash](/docs/reference/stash.md)	 - Stash by AppsCode - Backup your Kubernetes Volumes
